# About


Hello and welcome! My name is Cindy Cheng. I am a political scientist and data scientist.  As a political scientist, my work has primarily engaged in examining the politics of crisis, including how both governments and people react to crisis and uncertainty as well as how their actions can contribute to it. I have explored these topics across a wide variety of issue areas common to the field of international political economy, including the COVID-19 pandemic, food safety, foreign aid and trade.  As a data scientist, I have deep expertise in applying a wide variety of methodological approaches ( e.g. causal inference, predictive modeling) and tools (e.g. (non)linear modeling, machine learning, Bayesian statistics) to forward new insights and research. 

I have been leading a large scale international effort to systematically document government policies (e.g. lockdowns, travel bans) made in response to the COVID-19 pandemic with the CoronaNet Research Project. With colleagues at the Technical University of Munich and from NYU Abu Dhabi, Nazarbayev University, the University of Brasilia, the Hertie School of Governance, the University of Southern California and the Fors Mars Group, we have organized to date more than 1700 volunteer and paid research assistants to collect the largest and most detailed event dataset of its kind. More information about CoronaNet can be found here: https://www.coronanet-project.org

Methodologically, I have expertise in a variety of statistical methods, from machine learning to missing data imputation and Bayesian statistics among others. As a researcher, I have investigated a variety of issues relevant to political economy and political institutions, including the politicization of food safety problems, the legitimacy and efficiency of global governance institutions, the politics of innovation and drivers of foreign aid.  


I received a PhD in Political Science from Duke University in 2017. I also completed the coursework necessary to fulfill the requirements for a masters in statistics at Duke. I majored in Economics and Political Economy as an undergraduate at the University of California, Berkeley. I was a postdoctoral research fellow at the Technical University of Munich from 2016 to 2023. My work and training has received funding support from the EU Horizon 2020 Program, Fulbright-Hayes Program, and the U.S. Department of Education. 
